so let's say something bad is happening
right now in your life and it seems like
it is out of control well you have the
choice of saying
do i choose right now to shift my
perspective and use this as a learning
opportunity or do i keep my perspective
saying this is hard
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams
all right today's guest is the
co-founder of mindvalley teach and the
former ceo of valley itself
not a bad outcome for a guy who grew up
in japur india in a house with 23 people
under one roof at one point there were
so many people crammed into such a small
space that he had to share one bed with
two other people
knowing that he wanted something more
for his life he set out on a path to
getting wealthy that path led him to
founding several companies including
blink webinars the global grit institute
and evercoach to name but a few some
succeeded and some failed but he knocked
it out of the park when he agreed to
join a tiny startup called mindvalley as
an intern committing to the opportunity
mind body and soul he took himself from
being the intern to being the ceo and
helped the company become the juggernaut
that it is today with hundreds of
employees and countless customers all
over the world generating untold
millions of dollars in revenue annually
eventually realizing that he was
crushing it in business at the expense
of his personal life he ultimately
transitioned out of that role to focus
his time and attention on the things
that feed him not just financially but
emotionally as well
now he's a best-selling author who sits
on the board of companies like digital
academy india omvana and mindvalley
italy so please help me in welcoming the
man who is on a mission to directly
impact the lives of one million people
the author of live big ajit nawalka
what's up brother what's up man what are
you doing man
damn send me that intro
anytime man any time your story is
really incredible and well first of all
you had already had quite a bit of
success and the fact that you were
willing to become an intern and then
work your way up what did what traits in
you
do you think allowed you to do that
so i i think the the thing that had
happened at the time when i joined the
company as an intern was that there was
a shift that was coming uh in the world
this is about 10 years ago this was
about 2008 and in india facebook was a
really new thing that was the time when
i was actually running a company that
was trying to be a social media in india
this is really early internet like this
is the time when in india we were still
doing the dial up internet connection
right so
uh so i i was running that company and i
had realized that company didn't work
that the company bombed thanks to
facebook but one thing that i realized
while facebook was taking over that part
of the world is that this is going to be
the future and i knew nothing about it
like as much as i was trying to build a
digital company i knew nothing about how
to make things work on internet so it
was purely an opportunity thing i was
like okay i gotta learn this stuff and i
was fortunate to know people in
different places because i was part of a
student organization which is phenomenal
among the world's largest international
student organizations in my very early
years and one of that person was in
malaysia at the time and he knew my
interest to learn about digital
marketing and he said hey listen i don't
know any big companies but there's this
tiny little startup that seemed to have
a culture that i think you will love you
will love so why don't you go try this
one and that was really what it was it
was the curiosity to say i'm young i'm
i'm very stupid i still am very young
and very stupid but why not take this
opportunity to learn a little bit and
that got me to take that chance well
it's interesting because one thing i've
heard you talk a lot about is
not being afraid to face what you don't
know and you talk a lot about know
thyself
and
i love that and i get the feeling that
that's one of the things that's really
supercharged you is you always lean into
okay maybe i don't know this now but i
can learn it and i'm going to go educate
myself and you said that education is a
huge priority for you so how do you
there's really two things in that story
i want the audience to really understand
one how do you have the humility to go
from
starting a company being a co-founder to
being an intern i think that's huge and
then how do you begin to like
really get traction in the company and
show people what you can do
so let's tackle the first part which is
about humility i think it comes a little
bit from i had a lot of wisdom around me
i had my grandfather in the same house
and my father in the same house and and
they they they're just really wise
people my grandfather's past now but if
if i could share a story with you about
just to see
how wisdom around you can help you
there's a story that my my father told
me once about my grandfather which is uh
they were they were starting to try to
start their gemstone business and as
they were starting to build that
business they had they got a they got a
really big contract so like 30 years ago
right and they were like okay this is
where we crush it this is where we
become successful right they get the
contract and when you get the contract
my father's work was he would take raw
uncut stones and convert it into
precious gemstones so they go out they
go to some international place buy raw
uncut stones and the person they were in
partnership with took all that and just
ran away with it
so he was completely destroyed like you
can imagine he was like i'm done this is
over there's no future for us and i
don't know how to put food on the table
and my grandfather first dated him then
smiled at him and said
let's go get some sweets to celebrate my
dad was of course completely uh confused
he was like what the heck are you
talking about i'm not saying we got the
stones we lost the stones we don't have
these anymore uh he was like no i'm
celebrating two things today one is that
you now have realized in life that
things will go bad and things are going
to go bad it is not the first or the
last time that's going to happen it's
going to keep happening and that's just
how life is the second thing that i
really want to celebrate is in a few
months from now because of your
intelligence because of your hard work
you'll be past this
and you'll be okay
and there is nothing for you to worry
about here
right so i think that that kind of
wisdom allowed me really early in life
to to look at life from a place of play
than a place of
climbing a mountain i think
some elements of of that and and a few
more of saying i wanted to create a life
for myself
uh first
i was living in a house at 23 i wasn't
happy uh i i love the people love the
people in that house they're my family
and so forth but it wasn't comfortable
it wasn't something um
that helped my spirituality or put me in
a good state as a person so i needed
success
and i needed a lot of it to get out of
that house and that i think was one of
the big drivers for me to go from intern
to becoming the ceo of i would say one
of the most profound companies there is
in in the space of personal excellence
and that was one of the big drivers i
had to prove something to myself not to
anybody else to myself that i can do
this
so tell me about
you were studying to be an engineer and
you had to confront your dad about this
isn't for me
how when you hear from your mom as a
mantra what will people think what will
people think what will people think how
does it become your mantra
basically zfg
which is like a whole chapter in your
book talk to people about zfg what it
means
was that what was going on i don't think
that what happened with you and your dad
so like
what does happen with your dad how do
you
face up to that pressure which is coming
from your family and then ultimately how
do you develop the zfg mentality what
happened once was i know i'm not liking
what i'm doing and even if i do this
i'll probably be really bad at it
because i don't enjoy it at all
so i'm not going to enjoy the next four
years while i graduate from this and if
this actually is my life for the next 30
40 50 years i'm probably going to suck
at this so i maybe want to take a hard
look at my life and with these small
motivations that were coming along i
gathered the courage to actually not
tell my father directly i actually wrote
a letter to him
because i didn't were afraid i was
afraid i was afraid i didn't know how to
have that conversation i didn't know
how to tell him because they had
invested a lot of money in me for me to
get educated to be able to do the
engineering it wasn't again like i said
my family is from humble beginnings we
were 23 people living in the same house
right so i was right now saying i'm
gonna shatter all the dreams of my
mother or finally her being able to
boastfully say she has a kid who's an
engineer i am about to shatter all the
dreams of my father probably plus i'm
gonna waste all this money so i
basically
become the
the black sheep of the family the moment
i say this so it was a hard thing for me
to say
and i didn't know how to say it so i
wrote a letter to him a full two-page
letter explaining my situation how i
felt and how
i really need him to support me and i'm
fortunate my father is a very
understanding person
so he said okay i'll let you pursue what
you want to pursue but here is what i
can tell you i can't fund you i don't
have the money to be able to say if you
have some exorbitant idea to start a
business i don't have the money for it
right what i can do is i'll support you
for the next three four years because
that was your graduating years do
whatever you need to do
and and that got me started into saying
i now have i'm i'm a man of my own i
have to figure this out by myself which
also gave me the the drive to actually
start
uh work
very early in life like i started doing
part-time jobs in very different
categories because i didn't know what i
wanted right i was just somebody who had
just gotten out of school hoping to be
an engineer and now he had no hope there
so i wasn't pursuing education i had to
figure out a way and that got me started
early on in in really trying to interact
with people and learn from others
because again i couldn't afford
uh seminars or events so for me it was
people it was people like you and people
like other people who you would interact
on a daily life and hopefully work for
them and so forth and and be able to go
okay i got that from that person that
from that person and thankfully people
were willing to share that with me but
eventually it got me to a point where i
went to cfg which was zero flux given
actually that's what really it extends
into and
and and it wasn't zero given in
context of saying i don't care about the
other person and i want to be very clear
about that it's not i don't care for you
it's just i don't care for your opinion
of me
because i know that i am my own person
you know you will never know the full
story there is no way that i can
say somebody's story and i can
accurately comment exactly how they feel
it's not possible it's their journey
it's their experience it's their
universe almost right i would say until
recently maybe maybe until four or five
years ago i cared a lot about how people
thought about me and that that helped me
to some degree because i would try to
outdo everybody else that was my chase
who do we think is successful
person who has a lot of money right
that's what definition of success looks
like in the outside world but most of
the time if you meet people and i'm not
saying all of all of us are like that
but most of the time you meet people who
have a lot of money they are driven by
by very materialistic gains and so
everything else in their lives
are are suffer
are suffering almost right they their
relationship usually is the first one to
go then goes the health then goes all
the friendships and then comes the
dialogue like it's lonely at top and
this and that it's like come on
if you can build a business you can
build a life and success is not
you saying how much money you have in
the bank account it's about who you are
and how you show up in the world and how
you show up for yourself forget about
everybody else how usual for yourself
and that's where my theory and my
philosophy of not caring about what
anybody else thinks about me comes from
i i honor your opinion i will listen to
good feedback but i don't care if you
think i'm a good person i'm a bad person
i'm successful and failure it's not it's
not for you to decide for me to decide
and i do care for things that i care for
in the world so it's not zero flux given
in the sense of saying okay i don't care
for the world it's all about me me me me
it's the other way it's like i care for
the things that i care about i just
don't care for your opinions about me
especially if they don't come from a
place of love if they come from a place
of love i do care what you think about
me i do give a
but i don't give a if you just are
presenting an opinion because you saw a
post on instagram and you have a problem
with that
so how do you help people
get out from under family pressure
societal pressure you talk a lot about
social comparison like how do you help
people deal with that and then how do
you help them find the clarity of what
they really want for themselves
so finding clarity is is a very internal
process and and most of the time what
what has happened in our world today and
it happens more and more people get on
social media and more time they spend on
social media
is that we and this is actually
scientifically researched they develop
something that is called social
comparison we always had that as human
beings because we would look at somebody
else and we would go okay this is this
is that person let me take that from
this person right in the sense of just
comparing myself that was our measuring
stick for the longest time and and has
been and that's just human nature and
that's okay until it becomes an
addiction
right because previously social
comparison was like okay i met somebody
i'm inspired by that person i compared
myself i went back home and i've
forgotten about the person
now you remember the person every second
the time you open up your instagram
right because they are in your feed all
the time right and because of that it
causes anxiety it causes unnecessary
stress and most of the time it gets
people to do more things
right the thing with
with life generally and we would see
this in businesses more often than
anything else and even life
more activity almost never means more
success
it's usually less activity that creates
more success and success in the
definition of however you define success
right
more activity only creates more anxiety
most of the time explain that so so
think about it like this so for example
if somebody is running a business
business is a easier example most of the
time they're going okay so somebody said
uh we should do some facebook ads and
then we should do some google ads and
youtube's popping right now so let's do
some youtube and let's do some instagram
most of the time what we find there's
maybe one or two centers in the entire
business that actually makes sense to do
so there might be one play like a
youtube or a facebook or instagram
whatever that is for that business
that's all that the business requires
and not once this is every single time
i've gone into a business we've looked
at the business we said you know what
you're doing 10 items let's do two
right and when we do two we experience
almost consistently anywhere between 30
to 300 growth in the business is it
because people are getting too
distracted they're spread too thin or
yeah because they're always comparing is
why they do things right how is a
business strategy usually picked in a
business
you look at some of the business and go
well that business did that i'm gonna do
that
right that's how you pick a business
strategy is that the right way to begin
strategy if you really think about it
that's never the right way to pick a
business strategy the right way to pick
a business strategy is twofold the one
is you figure out who your client is and
how do you serve them and second is do
you even have the team to be able to do
it
right doing more
and this is again a thing that happens
with entrepreneurs often is they go i
can just work more
right i'll just post more often is that
the way really you will build a company
and you know this you build companies
you know it's always about the team if
you build leadership in your team you'll
build the company but if you're trying
to do more and you don't have the
leaders to be able to
do that more it's not going to happen
all you're going to do is you will be
overwhelmed you will be anxious and you
will not really grow your business and
you'll wonder
why it's not working then you look at
another business and guess what you're
going to do maybe i need to do one more
thing
that's not how you build your company
and that's it's just look at any company
that has become successful and the
easiest and the most coded example is
steve jobs right he came back to apple
what did he do first thing he said i
don't care about the
hundreds of products they had at the
time we're gonna do these too
right now even until recently i don't
know where it is now but i know a couple
of years ago i saw they just could still
fit all their products on the dinner
table
right become the most successful
powerful company in the world so it's
not about more it's always about less
it's only in time you realize what less
it is
to make this really concrete because i
think your own story is super powerful
here walk people through so you're the
ceo of mind valley you're killing it
you're making a fortune doing
better certainly earlier than you ever
thought you would do you had the whole
mission you want to buy my family a
house you thought by the time i'm 50 you
do it by the time you're 30. so you're
by
every sort of objective measure you're
doing well but by one measure which will
shorthand to internal happiness you're
not doing well so how how did you go
down the building awareness um
rediscovering yourself like what were
the end i know you're trying to avoid um
the process but even just like getting
some of the steps that you went through
as as a framing device for perspective i
think would be really helpful
sure so
firstly there were more measures than
just
internally not being happy it was
everything else in life but money
and and purposeful work so basically
work and career and profession was the
one that i was like
this is spot on exactly what i would
want and i would do it every day if i
could and everything else be it my
health beat my relationships with my
friendships with my relationship with my
parents beat my travel schedules
whatever that was it was absolutely
something that i
didn't truly enjoy didn't truly align
with or was not healthy in if i
continued the path i was on path to to
have some horrible outcomes in my life
or loneliness
would be the outcome of a lot of those
situations in my life so so
so often we tend to tend to separate
success by saying financial success we
don't tend to separate success by
financial success and life success we
tend to go okay if i'm financially
successful i'm successful right so that
was kind of my dialogue and that was the
internal dialogue that i came to that
realization i came to that realization
only when i took some time away i took
some time away finally because i was i
was definitely definitely not feeling at
the peak of my game so i took the time
away because of career honestly i was
like oh i need to get back on my peak so
i should take some time off and i start
evaluating my lives the first step was
for me was to say
what does my life look like what are my
goals my life goals and where am i today
right and as i wrote my goals i realized
that i have met all of the goals that i
had put myself
for
financial success right like i i got the
house for my family i was ceo of a
wonderful company so forth
all the other goals uh like travel for a
month every year just travel not not
worry not work travel travel travel
right or to have the kind of body i
wanted and and all of those other things
right which was a key thing for me and
still is a key thing for me because i
love writing like those where my
passions were all unchecked i learned
early on not to have timed goals so i
don't put goals in say 2019 i'm going to
do this or 2020 i'm going to do this i
usually have this is what i want to do
doesn't matter when it happens but this
is what i want to do really
counter-intuitive explain people why
you've taken that approach
well because life is not defined by a
year
if this year started and people think
first of january is a great day is it
really you decide to change when you
want to change right when i decided to
change it was end december it wasn't
first of january when i took the call it
was maybe 25th of december because that
was where i was
at the time and i said i think life
needs to change today and it changed
that day you said you took the call
internally internally yeah i kind of
said okay i'm evaluating my life right
now i'm definitely not a complete
success for myself
i have all those
those things that make me sound
successful from the outside and i would
look amazing and wonderful and the
greatest kid or whatever but from the
inside i was like what the heck am i
doing right so i wasn't happy i wasn't
in alignment with where i wanted to go
generally in life
so for internally i said this needs to
change i need to be
somebody that i am happy with like i
love myself in that in that dialogue
and uh
and and so that's that's where the
change first started is that decision
so how do you deal with the fear and the
doubt that inevitably would crop up in
that moment
good question so my process and i know
i've tried trying to avoid processes
there but at the same point of time
here's how i deal with fear fear is a is
a figment of our imagination
right fear is created because of
expectations right and i i learned this
process early on is that every time i
would get scared i would usually be
scared because i have some future i have
imagined there is something in the
future that i think will happen because
i will do this right now is why i'm
scared of doing this right you're about
to jump off a plane you think you're
going to die
you don't consider you have a parachute
or a person that is jumping with you
right so
that's what you're scared of is why you
won't jump off a plane is because you
think you will die um so i had
firstly once you have an expectation of
yourself and you say hey i don't need to
have this expectation i'm just living
life as a play it's a game it's music
it's it's fun it's joy
i don't have an expectation
of a particular outcome it doesn't mean
i'm discounting myself like the people
can get confused with that like it's not
that i'm saying oh i don't want to be
even more impactful in the world or a
better version or more honest version of
myself that journey will still continue
i just don't have that expectation i'm
not going to be sad if that doesn't
happen one day it's just something that
hey that's that looks fun that looks
fun to create right a company a bigger
company than where i am today it's a fun
thing to do so i'm doing it for the fun
and the joy so i am enjoying along the
ride like i'm not gonna kill myself if i
don't get there one day like it's not it
doesn't define me it's it's there only
so i have something to chase
because it's fun to chase so it's for
the joy of the chase than than actually
for the achievement of the thing because
honestly and we all do this by the time
you get close to this aren't you going
to just move this further right and so
it's a chase let's enjoy the chase why
do we have to kill ourselves in the
if we don't get it the chase is supposed
to be fun right so
so that's been i lose my train of
thought now about what people thought
that was perfect what i'm trying to
figure out is
how you're
willing to enable quite frankly to
reinvent yourself to stare down those
things and i think that was a really
good explanation and that leads me to
your whole notion around values and i
think this is so important and when i
think about
one of the things that people really
struggle with is they just don't have
the clarity which we touched on earlier
but breaking it down for them in a way
where they know what they need to define
and the language that you use around
identifying your values what are they
how do you make them more concrete how
do you like you wear yours so like walk
people through because i think a lot of
people hear your story and because they
don't have your value system they don't
have your beliefs they didn't grow up
around the same wisdom that you did they
hit that roadblock and they don't have
your tool kit
and so they're they're able to do the
work right and they go whoa i'm really
not happy yeah i'm making money or
whatever i hit the success that i
thought was gonna fulfill me it has not
but now i'm paralyzed because i don't
know what that next step is and i think
that next step is values yeah and so
walk people through that so
just to give more context of
understanding what values even mean so
what happens is a lot of times in life
we set goals and goals are usually said
because that's usually our how our
education system is right every school
every year you evaluate it there's a
grading system abc or marx or however
that is in different parts of the world
you go okay that's what i need to hit
because that is what
that is what will make my mom happy my
dad happy my family happy my my friends
will accept me whatever the story is
around that right so you're always
chasing and that's why we also have
year-long goals why because that's how
education system is set up because from
grade one to grade to grade t it's
always a year cycle right so everything
is your cycle our company will set up
your cycle taxes are set up your cycle
life runs on years but that's not true
right so firstly that's the first
dialogue to have is why is it that we
operate on goals the reason we operate
on goals is because that's how life has
been designed for all of us and it makes
seems to make more sense to us right but
at the same point of time life
as we have all lived it we know doesn't
really change by the month of the day
it changes by how and when we are ready
to change it right so
that's the first understanding that we
need to have right the life is
life is flowing
you can choose to change in this moment
you can choose to change it three years
from now or 30 years from now and it
will change the day you want to change
it right now once you know that you
understand that goals can be timeless
now the second part of that is if life
is going to flow means on every moment
basis it's going to be different in a
way right it's almost like
uh it's like a heartbeat or a river or
music it changes by the note right it's
just changing all the time right at this
moment it's different right energy
changes are the way we react to things
change all things change all the time
and if that's the case what's the one
thing that can define us or help us
stay in a place of joy
right because if life is going to be up
and down and things will change and
things will go bad or things will go
right there has to be something that
becomes our anchor point it can't always
be that goal which is so
arbitrary anyways so what is it that can
help us always be in that grounding
state and be in a place of joy and be in
that floating state all the time to be
able to go i'm pumped about this i'm
pumped about this moment it doesn't
matter how it shows up i'm pumped about
this right and that got me to the
dialogue of saying
maybe i need to find something that i
can anchor into at all times things that
actually give me joy all the time right
and that's what your values are your
values are
usually already with you you just have
not bringing awareness to them
it's the way you operate right and if
you
ask the hard questions and and me and my
wife have a have a practice every six
months we go evaluate where we are at
right now are we valuing something
different uh are we valuing the same
things right
for example
as a couple or individually as a couple
and then individually as well we we have
a whole process around it we take like
three days four days away and just do
that
anyway so coming back to it so we we
went and we went through the process
saying okay what is it that i show up in
in situations right so in different
situation you show up very differently
right so for example what happens when
you are in a
time of stress or what happens in a time
when the business goes down business
goes up what happens or how do you
operate when you're reaching out for
that unhealthy food right what is the
what is the place you're operating from
right and if you can find those places
that you operate from you know the
emotions you want to avoid
right so look for the negative emotions
that you experience most commonly and
find what is the place that you operate
from that causes you to operate that way
right if you're mean to someone what's
the place that you come from why is that
place there right do you like that place
hopefully most of the times your answer
should be no i don't like to be angry i
don't like to be frustrated i don't like
to be anxious usually people don't like
to be all those things they can be
useful emotions to tap into at times
they're not the place you want to be all
the time right then you find your good
spots it's like okay when is it that i
feel most powerful right
when is it that i feel more excited what
is the type of work i'm doing when i'm
what's the place you're operating from
there right why why is it that this is
fun
right and when you go okay this is why
this is fun these are the things that i
operate from you hopefully will be able
to find five or ten things or five or
ten emotions or five or ten
places that you operate from that gives
you that feeling that gives you that joy
for me it was service and love every
time i'm in a place service that i can
help somebody in any way it gives me
tremendous amount of joy my second is
love which is any time i'm able to
express my love for somebody or
something or from myself
that gives me tremendous amount of joy
how do people find those for themselves
like how do you
identify and do you see it because i've
i've always thought of the turning
inward process as being one of
self-definition versus self-discovery um
but i i know from hearing you talk that
for you it's much more a sense of
discovering what is already there so
what does that look like how do people
do that i don't think most people know
what their values are
yeah they don't and that's why we can so
it's almost like we are reactive to life
and so proactive to life right we
operate from life as life comes to us
right it's like okay this is happening
let me react to that right and that's
why we can get into places which are
sometimes not really good for us right
where else if you're proactive about
life you go how do i want life to show
up for me
right and that's coming from the place
of value so let's be proactive about
life how do you become more proactive
about life is is yes discovery and also
definition a little bit and we'll come
to that in a second
firstly look for what is it that you
want from your life right again one
thing that people don't tend to tend to
do or they think it's too far out it's
okay whatever you can imagine what you
want from your life and not only in
context of experiences that you want or
things that you want what do you want
from your life how do you want your
friendships to look like how do you want
your relationship to look like how do
you want your states to look like on a
daily basis on a moment by moment basis
once you define that you go one step
further and go what is it that will
create that for me
right what is it that will create that
for me now you will put some tools you
might say okay learnings will do that
for me events will do that for me so
forth right friendships will do that for
me
now what do i need to be
to be able to
create this for me now who do i need to
be once you define that you'll find
usually there will be some things that
you truly are and some things you need
to nurture and which are your values
actually some things that you really are
and some things you need to nurture so i
only say two values i have more than two
values the two values are most prominent
for me these are the places i want to be
in all the time right
but i of course have more values as well
i have abundance as one of my values so
there's nothing wrong with having more
values but you just need to find those
five maybe seven of those that are true
honest to you that you want to operate
from all the time and and some of them
are true to you some of them you will
nurture that's that's okay and nurturing
will take its own process because once
you know what they are you go okay but i
do fall for example let's say if i was
somebody who who had the challenge of
being always being service but i do want
that my value because that's the life i
want to create well i'll have to nurture
i'll have to could create check
mechanisms for myself to be able to go
am i acting from a place to several
service and to check back in and and go
okay oh no this was not from a place of
service this was from greed for example
right and that will change that reality
because yes initially it might be greed
but eventually after six months after a
year of practice you will come from a
place of service you will change that
dialogue and you will not do something
just because you agree about it you will
do it because you actually love doing it
and you will stop doing things that you
did because you were greedy about it
so that's the operation that
that you need to do in context of
nurture what do you say to people who
have picked values because the values
sound good versus them being actually
something if they're really honest
that's driving them
well it's good for the show
and great if that's the life you want to
live if you want to live a life where
you're something on the outside and
something on the inside
good for you let's see how long that
lasts for you and does that give you a
life that you really want so it's again
it's it's one of those decisions that we
have to make for ourselves as human
beings right
we can be as human beings as people who
are always
right for the world or we can be just
right for ourselves
right so we can just be honest about
ourselves or we can put display for the
world nothing wrong with putting display
of the to the world that's what gives
you joy
but just be honest about it with
yourself because it's eventually it's
all boils down to you and your story
yeah you've talked a lot about
perspective and choice and that's
something that i find really interesting
so one of the things that you said is
everybody needs to remember that they
always have a choice what do you mean by
that because i think some people really
feel like no no there are times where
i'm completely out of control
well that's the choice you made
you're completely yeah that you're
completely out of control that's a
choice that you make and it's not that
it by choice i don't mean you have
control
by choice i mean you have the choice of
how you operate when that situation is
happening so let's say something bad is
happening right now in your life and it
seems like it is out of control well you
have the choice of saying
do i choose right now to shift my
perspective and use this as a learning
opportunity or do i shift my perspective
or keep my perspective saying this is
hard
right it's it's one of those classic
stories right you you find an alcoholic
has two kids one becomes an alcoholic
because well my father was an alcoholic
another one becomes uh absolute legend
and hates alcohol because they're like
well my father was an alcoholic right
it's the same story
it's the same situation you can choose
to go this way or that way both of them
are right
i love that
all right before i ask my last question
tell these guys where they can find you
online
well you can google my name if you can
spell it
you can go to mindvalley.com or you can
go to evacoach.com i'm present at all
our different companies that we have
created globalgoodinstitute.com or you
can find me on instagram and facebook
they're all by my full name so it's
ajet ajit navalka nawa lkha all right my
last question is what is the impact that
you want to have on the world
so i have the heart i've thought really
hard about this what's the impact that i
want to have in the world and i think
the conclusion that i've gotten to is
that i just want to make
world a little bit better
so i don't want to
i don't want to put myself under the
pressure saying i will change the world
i don't want to put the world under the
pressure of saying i will change the
world i want us to be able to create a
positive force as much as we can
on an everyday every moment basis every
conversation if i can create if i can
move the needle just a little bit more
if i can move the line just a little bit
further for us to be able to as humanity
say hey we made progress
and every day every moment of my life
that's all i want to do i don't care if
the world remembers me i don't care if i
become a legend or i don't but i just
want to make sure that we are moving the
world more and more towards the positive
direction that everybody
is getting a choice to be able to live a
better life if they choose to
that is amazing guys hopefully this
episode is adding value and by the way
if it is hit that like button if you
love it hit the love button and if it's
really adding value and you think that
it would help somebody else be sure to
share it that's a way for us to get this
message out there and i think that his
message is really extraordinary and if
you read his book one thing that you're
going to see is how you can begin to
define your own life how you can really
take control how you can not only get
the awareness that he's talking about
but understand how to put it to use and
he gets really practical in his book and
that was one thing that i really loved
about the book is that ultimately it is
going to show you how you can implement
this stuff in your own life and he talks
about how not every passion is something
that you can monetize which is something
that you have to face be really
realistic to look at that and seeing the
journey that he's gone on the moments
where he's been succeeding from a
traditional standpoint but had the
self-awareness to really re-identify
what was important to him and make the
changes in his life and something we
didn't even get to talk about which is
his four-by-four principle where he
works four hours a day four days a week
which is pretty extraordinary so if you
want to learn more about that be sure to
check out the book as well he's really
crafted a pretty extraordinary life
which is meant to feed daily joy and not
just the
stereotypes of what we think people
expect of us and this whole notion of
leaning into who you really are instead
of who other people expect you to be i
think is really extraordinarily powerful
so if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe be sure to look him up it will
be very very powerful if you do all
right guys if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe until next time my
friends be legendary thank you so much
for coming on man
if you enjoyed that interview be sure to
click the link below to watch my
interview with vishen lakiani the ceo of
mindvalley enjoy and i'll see you there
because anyone today can learn how to
earn an income online if they have the
right dedication and the right skillset